---
layout: page
title: TREASURY MEMO NOTES
permalink: /memo/
---

# OVERVIEW

Treasury (treasury.space) is a licensing, syndication, and community project to make the the world's most beautiful and useful building-scale 3D assets (digital spatial assets) available to Metaverse development. 

"*The Stripe of 3D digital environments."*

It is built on the most advanced distributed licensing and smart contract protocol, integrated directly into the professional and enthusiast creator design tools. 

# MARKET BACKGROUND

At a time when the development of the so-called Metaverse is massively expanding - with the most influential companies in history now converging on it including Microsoft (Mesh), Facebook (Meta, Oculus), Epic Games (Fortnite, Unreal Engine), Apple (ARKit, AR glasses), and other sectors (including retail, events, media, education) finding their footing - the potential to supply this market with quality 3D built environments is vast and unparalleled. 

Game developers and film producers have discovered what building architects and urban designers already know: to design effective and satisfying spaces is complex, takes a lot of time, and requires specialized skills.

Treasury

1) liberating petabytes of the best designed environments in history - currently sitting idle on servers in architecture, game, film, and increasingly art studios - and making these digital spatial assets available on a licensed basis to Metaverse developers,

2) incentivizing the addition of fully-licensed high-quality models of the world's real estate landmarks to the Metaverse,

3) accelerating the market for new hybrid 'Metaverse design' that serves both real and imaginary worlds, and stimulating a breakthrough creator economy around this

4) ensuring owners and creators are in control of both their own licenses and the end-user deployment and adaptation of their assets.

# FOUNDING TEAM

Treasury is a collaboration of some of world's top architecture offices, spatial technology and data scientists, NFT art & community creators, web3 developers, including Zaha Hadid Architects, UN Studio, Squint/Opera, Last Meter®, CryptoCities NFT, and dOrg.tech. 

Executive advisors include the world leaders in Metaverse, trusted crypto applications in real estate, NFT/community culture, and web architectures/protocols such as Matt Ball (Metaverse ETF), Seyi Taylor (YoloDice NFT), Alain Waha (Buro Happold), Gordon Brander (Google), Fredrik Carlström (Alma).

Project executives include founder, CEO and Head of Product John Manoochehri (Last Meter®, UN, WWF), Head of Stack Shajay Bhooshan (Head of Technology, Zaha Hadid Architects),  Director of Strategic Partnerships Jan Bunge (co-Founder, Squint/Opera), Head of Operations Alicia Katz (Tier 11, Tribal DDB).

Technical partners include the top architecture and design tools in the world: Rhino/McNeel & Associates, Unreal Engine/Epic Games & Arcol.

The Team's advantage including its

- technical skillset in spatial and design technologies, and technical and creative industry partnerships
- network quality and position of trust in the world of high-quality building models and landmark real estate assets
- pipeline of talent and community support (Team has c.2M combined instagram followers)

is world-unique and represents a huge strategic moat.

# BUSINESS MODEL

- The core business opportunity is to participate in the revenue generation associated with licensing and syndicating of pre-existing high-quality assets, in the same way as any license facilitation and distribution model (eg music).
- Associated with this is the potential for revenue generated by back-syndicating new commissions to creators from the demand-side to the supply side of the market.

Additional revenue opportunities arise from both the 

- community potential around the project - including supporting and monetizing third-party marketplaces with tools like Shopify
- additional consulting services - including both asset preparation and support for development of Metaverse projects
- third-party partnerships - who may support any of the above, and feed part of their own revenues back to the project.

# MARKET OUTLOOK

Over the long term, total TAM for Treasury is massive, on the basis alone that the largest companies in history are all converging on a Metaverse model in some form.

In terms of near-term Serviceable Available Market (SAM), the following are targets:

- **Platforms / Immersive** - wherever there is ongoing technical development of 'immersive' Metaverse platforms, the target is to become the supplier of quality, reliable built environments. *Example: Zaha Hadid has already been used by PUBG to supply a building environment, and new partnerships can be channelled through Treasury.*
- **Platforms / Digital Twins** - wherever there is market interest for digital twins, at building or urban scale, for the purpose of engineering optimization, energy & resource management, city planning (including logistics, mobility and infrastructure) and related use cases, the project can supply suitable models. *Example: The Last Meter® Urban Model project in partnership with Epic Games is an urban optimization environment that requires a high-quality city-scale building assets, which can be accessed and/or requested through Treasury.*
- **Virtual Production** - Virtual production is a hybrid technology stack for enabling CG environments in live-action film production, where environments are rendered in real-time onto a high-definition screen, and filmed together with live action talent and staging. The demand for high-quality 3D environments in this context is integral to the workflow, and this use case is growing immensely in film and other sectors including retail, events, education. *Example: Zalando (online retailer) is using virtual production to create live store experiences with swappable enviroments.*
- **Asset owners experiences** - Asset owners, in particular owners of landmark buildings, but also digitally-forward real estate developers, are interested in not just receiving value for their asset 'image rights' but in creating branded experiences that they themselves curate and control in Metaverse settings, including visits/tours, sales tools, games, event opportunities and more. *Example: Silverstein Properties is looking to complement its current opportunities for its tenants in Freedom Tower and other properties with Metaverse-type experiences.*
- **Creative projects** - All other independent creative projects that involve some kind of 3D environments are in a position (and in many cases will be required) to license assets to build out the environments they seek to create. *Examples include countless Metaverse development projects that cultivate communities (Decentraland, Cryptovoxels), Metaverse events and experiences (eg product launches), indie games, demos/test environments, stores, sales tools and more. Example: Cryptocities NFT will license landmark building assets through Treasury.*

# TECHNICAL & PRODUCT MOAT

The technical and product moat of Treasury is considerable:

- The Treasury Mint Protocol is by far the most advanced project to add licensing to digital spatial assets. Instead of minting a digital file, which does not represent the core IP of the asset, the Mint Protocol processes digital spatial assets to extract and mint **morphological signatures** which represent the design intent including visual style and technical configuration of the built objects. The spatial science behind the identification of morphological signatures is highly specialized (patents under development), and not only reinforces the IP regime for built design but enables *recovery* of IP in digital copies of distinctive designs (similar to musical signature scanning in YouTube asset ingestion model).
- The Mint Protocol also pioneers the use of smart contracts to enable **differential licensing** of digital spatial assets. This means that creators of suitably configured digital spatial assets can enable and prevent specific manipulations of the assets, both preserving design intent and creator identity and brand, while unlocking creative opportunity and additional revenue potential.
- SpaceForm, owned by project Founding Partner Squint/Opera, and developed in collaboration with Epic Games, is the first platform tool for integrating the Treasury Mint Protocol which represents **2 years of development on an Unreal Engine stack**, the most powerful render engine available for spatial technology and visualization. No other architecture visualization or 3D model minting technology has a platform as advanced as this.
- Technical integrations into both industry-grade, prosumer, and hobbyist design authoring tools means that minting assets as they are created becomes possible. No-one else is currently as advanced in making this step into the digital spatial asset authoring tool market. Tool targets and **partnerships include Rhino/McNeel, Arcol, Blender, Magica Voxel**.

# CREATOR & CURATOR COMMUNITY

Treasury unlocks massive opportunity for creators of architecture, game, film, art and other environmental digital spatial assets to own their own value and take charge of how their work is deployed. It will lead to an evolution of the built design sector away from monolithic large organizations, which are large enough to dominate market attention, to a more organic and diverse creator landscape. 

And it also will enable a 'curator economy' for those who are excited about digital spatial assets and who wish to curate collections, interest groups, and even third-party specialist market places. 

The combination of creator economy and curator economy represent a huge community potential around the project. Already, project Team members have a combined **2M Instagram followers** who have yet to be included in a community-type project.

# COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE

The competitive environment includes a number of current and potential future barriers to progress.

- The existing marketplaces for 3D assets are potentially competitive. These include Unreal Engine's existing marketplace and their newly acquired Quixel Megscans and 3D SketchFab, Trimble's 3D warehouse, Dassault Systems 3D Content Central, and similar. *However: these marketplaces are not distributed (creators cannot license their own work directly) nor do they permit differential licensing through smart contracts. Also, they are not focussed on building-scale high-quality assets, instead mixing high-quality large-scale assets with low grade and object-scale assets which dissipates the quality and value concentration.*
- The existing NFT minting environments include various 3D and generative minting projects which are potential competitive. These include Artblocks, Foundation, OpenSea and similar. *However: these projects use conventional minting, meaning that they minting the digital files (unlike the Treasury Mint Protocol which targets the morphological signatures, thus design intent and identity, of the assets), leaving these alternatives technically exposed, and not reliable for robust protection of IP.*
- The emerging platforms (Microsoft, FB/Meta, etc) are potential barriers to progress in the eventuality that they either don't wish to license assets or go and license them directly. *However: this is unlikely on the basis that that these platforms do not have a core business objective in building private technical and business partnerships around asset licenses. Google uses music license aggregators to enable music licensing on YouTube, and in any case at large scale asset brokerage is essential, given the complexity and relative lack of value of attempting to do this for private use only - the asset owners themselves will want other platforms to equivalent access to their assets.*
- The asset holders including architecture offices, game studios, film studios and artist could decide to license their assets directly (ie sell their assets themselves) if at all, or not at all. This is definitely possible with superpremium asset holders, such as Disney, *but in almost all legacy cases, even of very valuable IP, licensing happens because of market demand, and takes place via a license broker of some sort for efficiency purposes.*
    
    In addition to these resolutions of potential competition, the project's focus on syndication and discovery, its emphasis on quality assets, and its existing trust in the market give it additional competitive moats beyond the core strategic and technical moats described above. 
    

# RISKS & CONCERNS

The main concerns associated with project are about the speed of evolution of the uptake of the licensing opportunity on both sides of the market: asset holders may decide they don't need to license out their assets, and the asset users on the demand side may design they don't need to license in others' assets. *However, the scale of the market is so large, and progress is so fast, that it is not likely that a sufficiently sizeable market will not be available to service at any point going forward.* 

The main risk associated with the project is uncertainty about the pricing of assets - the wide variation in potential pricing will lead to different speeds of growth, revenue and different projections of margin and unit economics. *However, at the scale of the market predicted - Facebook/Meta also has more than 3 billion active users - even low levels of unit monetization lead to massive revenue opportunities.*